# A sample VueJs project - Britecore

## Deployment  
When I decided on how to structure the project, I came up with the current structure, namely a NodeJs server (server) a Vue Js application (client) and the required quiz folder. In this way I wanted to have a clear separation among parts of the project. Sometimes it can get messy navigating through code and this way I know where I am working and what needs to be done without thinking too much. Further, having separate NodeJs server and VueJs client eases the scaling process, as the same server instance can be replicated while a load-balancer can redirect traffic to multiple VueJs clients.  
Deploying the application was done as following: 
* Created a Heroku deployment for VueJs build, and from the repository removed the `client/dist` folder so builds can be deployed directly when updating the local repo. 
* Added a `client/server.js` file to serve the content generated by running `npm run build` in `client` folder. 
* Deployed to heroku only the folder `client` where the VueJs application resides. This using the following command `git subtree push --prefix client heroku master`
* In another server I cloned the repository, installed NodeJs and MongoDB (our database of choice).
* Started the NodeJs application, running in port 3001. (Port & other settings can be changed through .env files in both `client` and `server` folders) 
* Created a self-signed certificate and added the https options to NodeJs application in order to prevent the mixed content issue, as Heroku runs in https. 
* Used pm2 to create a systemd file so my server automatically starts/restarts application. This helps me monitor my NodeJs app too. 
* Next I updated the `client` application to point to the server where NodeJs was running on https.
* Finally deployed the latest build to Heroku.

Documentation for the API is located [here](https://159.65.115.79:3001/documentation/index.html).  

1. How long did you spend on the test? Would you do anything differently if you had more time?  
Roughly about 3 days (afternoon only). Well, quite a few things can be added. I could modularize more the component, organize better the code, add some other features, do some more testing for props and overall functionality and so on.   

2. In what ways would you adapt your component so that it could be used in many different scenarios where a data table is required?   
When I started thinking on how to organize the table component, the main things I wanted to solve were: passing the data (array of function), passing the customization properties (classes, hide or show settings for different parts of datatable) and some other minor details. So I have already added quite some functionality so it can be used in different scenarios. One thing I had not much time to work on is checking of data types of different columns. So currently, the columns are passed as props to the component using an object with properties of label and value for that column. I wanted to add some more properties to that prop, namely the data type and possible formatting. This would help me when creating forms that insert data to table and overall sorting/filtering capabilities. Another property it can be added is the possibility of sending an array of cols for filtering, as currently only supports one field.   

3. What is your favorite CSS property? Why?  
Well, there are a few, however `calc()` it is interesting to me because it allows to make calculations in CSS.  

4. What is your favorite modern Javascript feature? Why? 
There are a few of them, template literals, destructuring, arrow functions and property shorthands. But if I have to choose I think the async functions are great, allowing better code readability, making it look like a synchronous call. Cool!

5. What is your favorite third-party Vue.js library? Why? 
There are a few here too. Recently I started using vue-antd framework, I quite like their components and UI/UX part of it. However, my favorite it is Vuex, as it allows me a clear organization of code and concise tracking of the application state. Vue devtools for Chrome are amazing too. 
## Server setup (NodeJs)


``` bash
cd server 

# install dependencies
npm install

# we are using MongoDB to store the data, so use .env.example to set the MongoDB url
cp .env.example .env

# and modify this line
MONGODB_URL="mongodb://localhost/britecore"

# serve with hot reload at localhost:3001, to change the port edit in src/index.js
npm run start

# build for production with minification
npm run build
```

## Client setup (VueJs)
```bash
cd client 

# install dependencies
npm install

# since we are using a NodeJs backend
cp .env.example .env 

# and modify this line with the following
API_URL='http://localhost:3001/api/v1/'

# run the application, by default in port 8080
npm run dev

# run unit tests
npm run unit

# run e2e tests
npm run e2e

# run all tests
npm test
```

## Quiz

The quiz solution is located at ```quiz/quiz.js```  

```bash
# to run it use
node quiz.js 
```